One last little thing is trying to
understand how do we pass data into
these shaders.
Because right now we have data that's
being passed from a vertex to a fragment,
but how do we pass data from
our code here in JavaScript and
pass it into both of these shaders.
So we're going to use uniforms, we specify
that in the shader material, and uniforms
is an object where you pass in the name
to uniform, so let's name it colors.
So the name here is really important,
because the name that we use in this
object is going to be the same name
that we have to use in our shaders.
And so we always do it like this
syntax color, is an object and
the object has a property called value and
then we can pass in 3js type.
So a 3js color or 3js vector 3, or
even just a regular number like a 0 or
5 or
6 as a float and
that will create a uniform.
Once we declare it in our material we have
to declare it in our fragment shaders,
we have to write this line uniform
vec3 color, that declares it and
it's just saying let's access this.
So I could say multiply
the result by that color and
now all of a sudden I've got a color
that's coming from JavaScript
that I can define in like a hex code or
a CSS color string.
And you can imagine changing this
value based on maybe user input or
something like that, and
it would change in the shader,
uniforms get sent to both the fragment and
vertex shader.
So this is pretty heavy stuff, but
after this because this is like
the heaviest part, we're going to try and
just dissect and like digest all
of the stuff around shaders just
by doing some more fun exercises.